# Event Process Mining on Graph Databases
Under the research question of ‘Is it possible to conduct process mining analysis on graph databases?’, data set of an ITIL IT incident management process was taken. We executed an analysis of the impact of changes to IT components on the management process, a so-called "impact analysis". The study was carried out on two different schemas with the following questions:
1) What is the right data model to work as an event log on graph databases?
2) Which queries and analysis steps are necessary to execute an impact analysis for the ITIL process on graph data? Also, which of these queries are generalizable to other datasets and questions?
3) Is it possible to obtain the same results with the classical process mining techniques and tools?

The following results were obtained:

1) The simplicity and correctness for the data model and simplicity and fastness of the queries were compared. Leander’s schema had complete DF relations and event definitions that were missing in Esser’s schema. However, it was simpler to construct the queries and faster to run the queries in Esser’s schema whereas intense filtering was needed to run the queries faster in Leander’s schema.
2) To clean the data, we created queries for remove erroneously recorded event nodes or event nodes not required for the analysis. Then, for each configuration item in the IT incident process, we grouped the entities for Incident and Interactions before and after changes. So, we could create a new schema to query and conduct the impact analysis such as a change that leads to more/fewer incidents at an IT component or more/fewer interactions with IT support. We found that changes that work on multiple hardware components at once and that these two changes bring a mixed impact such as more
Pinar Turkyilmaz
incidents on one IT component while fewer incidents on another IT component. Out of them, projection onto a subset of events, remove erroneously recorded event nodes, aggregating of sequences of events into one single event, finding eventually Directly Follows Incidents/Interactions before and after a change, aggregation of the sequence of Incidents/Interactions before and after a change can be generalizable.
3) We compared our analysis to an analysis where classical process mining techniques on sequential event logs were applied. We found that when considering changes per IT component in isolation that we obtained the same results. However, we found the individual changes which affected multiple IT components and have a mixed effect on different items. With process mining techniques this would not be identified but thanks to graph-based structure, which helped us to see the whole path for an IT component, we had more insights about the effects of changes.
